= sequel_sluggable

== Install

Add gemcutter.org source if you don't have it:
  gem source http://gemcutter.org

Install:
  [sudo] gem install sequel_sluggable

== Usage

This plug-in provide functionality to allow Sequel::Model to have a slug.
Slug is created in ether the *before_create* or *before_update* hooks.

To use plug-in you add plug-in to your model:

  class MyModel < Sequel::Model
    plugin :sluggable, :source => :name
  end

You can use following options:
*frozen*:: Should slug be frozen once it's generated? Default true.
*sluggator*:: Proc or Symbol to call to create slug.
*source*:: Column which value will be used to generate slug.
*target*:: Column where slug will be written, defaults to *:slug*.

Options *frozen*, *sluggator* and *target* are optional.

<b>Options are inherited when you use inheritance for your models</b>. However
you can only set options via plugin method.

You can access options for current model via reader <b>Model#sluggable_options</b>
which is readonly.

== When is slug generated?

By default slug is generated *ONLY* when model is created and you 
<strong>didn't set it</strong>. <strong>When you update model slug 
is not updated by default</strong> but if you set :frozen => false, 
slug will be regenerated on update. Some examples:

  class Item < Sequel::Model
    plugin :source => :name
    ...
  end
  
  Item.create(:name => 'X')      # Generates slug
  
  i = Item.new(:name => 'X')
  i.slug = 'X Y'                 # Sets slug manualy
  i.save                         # Slug is not regenerated but the set slug is used
  i.slug                         # => x-y
  i.update(:name => 'Y')         # Won't regenerate slug, because slug is frozen by default
  i.slug                         # => x-y
  
  BUT:
  
  class Item < Sequel::Model
    plugin :source => :name, :frozen => false
    ...
  end
  
  i = Item.create(:name => 'X')  # Generates slug
  i.update(:name => 'Y')         # Will regenerate slug, because slug is now not frozen
  i.slug                         # => y

== Access/Set slug

You can access slug via your normal Sequel reader. By default that will be 
<b>Model#slug</b> method. If you customize this via :target option than you have
<b>Model#:target</b>.

Writer for the slug is generated depending on your :target option. Default will
be <b>Model#slug=</b> otherwise <b>Model#:target=</b>. You can call setter
to set the slug before the creating or updating model.

== Algorithm customization

You can customize algorithm of the slug creation in several places.
If you provide _:sluggator_ Proc or Symbol the sluggator will be called:

  class MyModel < Sequel::Model
    plugin :sluggable,
           :source    => :name,
           :sluggator => Proc.new {|value, model| do_something }
  end

OR

  class MyModel < Sequel::Model
    plugin :sluggable, :source => :name, :sluggator => :my_to_slug
  end

If you don't provide _:sluggator_ sequel_sluggable will try to use
<b>Model#to_slug(value)</b>. So if you have in your model this method
it will be used:

  class MyModel < Sequel::Model
    plugin :sluggable, :source => :name

    def to_slug(value)
      value.upcase
    end
  end

If you don't define <b>Model#to_slug</b> or *:sluggator* sequel_sluggable
will use it's own default implementation which does following:
 
  'value_of_the_source_column'.chomp.downcase.gsub(/[^a-z0-9]+/,'-')

= Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but
   bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Contributors

* Pavel Kunc
* Jakub "Botanicus" Stastny

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2009 Pavel Kunc. See LICENSE for details.
